<!---

TASK LIST:

  * Use cp -rf *.* to copy all of the files and directories in this repository
    to the starter repository for this assignment
  * Change into the directory for the starer repository
  * Update the header (e.g., #) to only give the name of the assignment
  * Update the first paragraph to include the commented-out content
  * Change the link in the # Problems section to point to this lab's starter
  * Create the assignment in the GitHub Classroom, noting the URL
  * Test the assignment by accepting it with your own GitHub account
  * Check to ensure that your GitHub repository is created correctly
  * Share the assignment link with all of the students using email or Slack
  
  PROFESSOR CREATION OF GIT SUBMODULE FOR GATORGRADER:

  * If the submodule is not visible or not working, you can run:
  * "git submodule add https://github.com/gkapfham/gatorgrader.git gatorgrader"

  * If you want to ensure that the submodule is working in a starter,
  * then you can "rm -rf .gitmodules" and "rm -rf gatorgrader" first.
  * Now, you can run the above "git submodule" command above.

-->

# cs111s2018-practical11-solution

Designed for use with [GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/), this
repository contains the solution for Practical 11 in Computer Science 111.

<!---

 Since the Travis builds for this repository will initially fail (as evidenced by
 a red &#x2717; appearing in the commit logs instead of a green &#x2714;), the
 programmer is responsible for completing all of the steps needed to satisfy the
 requirements for the assignment, thus causing a &#x2714; to instead appear in
 the commit logs.

--->

## Introduction

This assignment requires a programmer to study three given Java programs, called
`CallingMethodsInSameClass`, `LoopStyles` and `SwitchDay`, fix the existing
errors in these programs and finish their implementation. Please see
the comments in the source code and the laboratory assignment sheet for more
details. As verified by [Checkstyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle),
the source code for the `InvestigateExceptions.java` file must adhere to all of
the requirements in the [Google Java Style
Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html).

There are no GatorGrader checks for the source code in the
`InvestigateExceptions` file. Instead, you are responsible for writing a short
report, stored in `writing/exceptions.md` that reports on the behavior of the
program when it is run in a configuration that individually calls each of the
commented-out methods. Please run the program, observe the output, try to
understand why the exception occurs, and then write about your understanding.
So, the GatorGrader program will check that your writing contains the
appropriate number of paragraphs.

When you use the `git commit` command to transfer your source code to your
GitHub repository, [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/) will initialize a build
of your assignment, checking to see if it meets all of the requirements. If both
your source code and writing meet all of the established requirements, then you
will see a green &#x2714; in the listing of commits in GitHub. If your
submission does not meet the requirements, a red &#x2717; will appear instead.
The instructor will reduce a programmer's grade for this assignment if the red
&#x2717; appears on the last commit in GitHub immediately before the
assignment's due date.

A carefully formatted assignment sheet for this project provides more details
about the steps that a computer scientist should take to complete this
assignment. You can view this assignment sheet by visiting the listing of
practicals on the course web site.

## Learning

If you have not done so already, please read all of the relevant [GitHub
Guides](https://guides.github.com/) that explain how to use many of the features
that GitHub provides. In particular, please make sure that you have read the
following GitHub guides: [Mastering
Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/), [Hello
World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/), and [Documenting Your
Projects on GitHub](https://guides.github.com/features/wikis/). Each of these
guides will help you to understand how to use both [GitHub](http://github.com) and
[GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/).

To do well on this assignment, you should also review Chapter 11 of the
textbook. Please see the course instructor or one of the teaching assistants or
tutors if you have questions about any of these reading assignments.

## Commands

To get started in using the GatorGrader tool, you can change into the directory
for this assignment and type the command `./gatorgrader.sh --start` in your
terminal. Now, if you want to perform all of the checks that will automatically
evaluate your assignment, you can type the command `./gatorgrader.sh --check`.

Running this command will produce a lot of output that you should carefully
inspect. If the last line of the output indicates that GatorGrader judges that
there are no mistakes in the assignment, then this means that your source code
and writing are passing all of the automated checks. However, if the last line
of the output indicates that there are mistakes, then you will need to
understand what they are and then try to fix them.

You can also complete several important Java programming tasks by using the
`gradle` tool. For instance, you can compile (i.e., create bytecode from the
program's source code if it is a correct program) the program using the command
`gradle build`. There are also additional commands that you can type:

* `gradle clean`: clean the project of all the derived files
* `gradle check`: check the quality of the code using Checkstyle
* `gradle build`: create the bytecode from the Java source code
* `gradle run`: run the Java program in the command-line
* `gradle tasks`: display details about the Gradle system

To run one of these commands, you must be in the main directory for this
assignment where the `build.gradle` file is located. Then, you can type the
command in the terminal and study the output.

If the course instructor publishes a new version of GatorGrader and asks you to
access it, then you need change into the tool's directory by typing `cd
gatorgrader`. Then, you can type the command `git pull` to download the new
source code for the GatorGrader tool. If this command completes successfully,
then you can return to the main directory for this practical assignment by
typing `cd ..` and then continuing your work.

## Travis

This assignment uses [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/) to automatically run
the checking programs every time you commit to your GitHub repository. The
checking will start as soon as you have accepted the assignment, thus creating
your own private repository, and the course instructor enables Travis for it. If
you are using Travis for the first time, you will need to authorize Travis CI to
access the private repositories that you created on GitHub.

## Problems

If you have found a problem with this assignment's provided source code, then
you can go to the [Computer Science 111 Practical 10
Starter](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-111-S2018/cs111s2018-practical10-starter)
repository and create an issue by clicking the "Issues" tab and then clicking
the green "New Issue" button. If you have found a problem with the [GatorGrader
tool](https://github.com/gkapfham/gatorgrader) and the way that it checks you
assignment, then you can follow the aforementioned steps to create an issue in
its repository. To ensure that your issue is properly resolved, please provide
as many details as is possible about the problem that you experienced.

Students who find, and use the appropriate GitHub issue tracker to correctly
document, a mistake in any aspect of this laboratory assignment will receive
free laptop stickers and extra credit towards their grade for it.

## Assistance

If you are having trouble completing any part of this project, then please talk
with either the course instructor or a teaching assistant during the laboratory
session. Alternatively, you may ask questions in the Slack team for this
course. Finally, you can schedule a meeting during the course instructor's
office hours.
